SNRPE - Secure Nagios Remote Plugin Executor.

SNRPE is a service that can be used to run NRPE over a secure SSH connection.
This is desirable because the SSL support built into NRPE is insecure and broken
by design.


Installation:

The file nagios/check_snrpe is a shell script that can be called from Nagios.
The usual place for these kind of scripts is /usr/lib/nagios/plugins. Also be
sure to mark the file as executable.

The file nagios/check_snrpe.cfg is a sample Nagios command definition and can be
copied to /etc/nagios-plugins/config/check_snrpe.cfg.

The files in lib should be copied to /usr/lib/snrpe.

The file upstart/snrpe.conf is an example Upstart configuration file for
starting SNRPE. You can copy it to /etc/init and modify it to fit your needs.

The file etc/snrpe.conf is the actual SNRPE configuration file. It should be
copied to /etc/snrpe/snrpe.conf. If you use a different path, you will have to
specify the path using the "-c" command-line option when starting snrpe.

In your Nagios configuration, you run the check_snrpe command at every instance
where you would usually run the check_nrpe command. The check_snrpe command
takes care of establishing the tunnel (provided that the SNRPE service is
running) and calling check_nrpe with the correct parameters to connect through
the tunnel.


Configuration:

The default configuration is already a good start. You might want to adjust the
path to the SSH private-key file. Please check the comments in the example
configuration file for more information.

On the target host (the host that is running NRPE), you have to the key used for
authentication to the list of authorized keys. For example, you could add the
following line to the .ssh/authorized_keys file:

no-agent-forwarding,no-pty,no-user-rc,no-X11-forwarding,permitopen="localhost:5666",command="/bin/false" <the SSH public key>

These options will ensure that the key can only be used for establishing a
connection with the NRPE service and nothing else. By default, SNRPE will try to 
connect using the username "root", but you can change this for more security.

The NRPE daemon must listen on the loopback device (127.0.0.1) and accept
connections from localhost. If you are worried about users connecting to the
NRPE service, on Linux you can use the following Iptables rule for limiting
access to a certain user.

iptables -A OUTPUT -d 127.0.0.1 -p tcp --destination-port $nrpe_port \
  -m owner ! --uid-owner ssh-tunnel-user -j REJECT 

Obviously, "ssh-tunnel-user" must match the name of the user which is used for
the SSH connection.


License Information:

   Copyright 2013 Sebastian Marsching

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.


Third-Party Software:

   JSch - Java Secure Channel
   Copyright (c) 2002-2012 ymnk, JCraft,Inc. All rights reserved.

   Apache Commons CLI
   Copyright 2001-2009 The Apache Software Foundation

   Apache Commons Configuration
   Copyright 2001-2012 The Apache Software Foundation

   Apache Commons Lang
   Copyright 2001-2011 The Apache Software Foundation

   Commons Logging
   Copyright 2001-2007 The Apache Software Foundation

   This product includes software developed by
   The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).
